# 2\. Global Assembly Cache (GAC)

  * Assemblies that are local to an application are private assemblies.
  * The GAC is another place to store assemblies, and it makes them available machine-wide.
  * Only strongly named assemblies can be added to the GAC.
  * The GAC is one of the places the CLR looks when searching for an assembly.
  * The assembly signature is verified before installation into the GAC, so verification is not required on load. This means a performance gain. 
  * You can use ngen.exe (Native Image Generator) to pre-compile DLLs that are put into the GAC for a performance gain.
  * Use the GAC when: 
    * You want an assembly to be used by multiple applications.
    * Enhanced security: only admins can alter the GAC.
    * Multiple versions of the same assembly are needed (side-by-side hosting)

  

  

 **Deploying to the GAC**

  * Use an installation program that has access to the GAC, e.g. Windows Installer 2.0.
  * Or you can use the Global Assembly Cache tool (Gacutil.exe) in development situations.

  

To view the contents of the GAC:

     

gacutil -l

  

To install an assembly into the GAC:

  

 gacutil -i "C:\Users\simon\Dropbox\Coding\70-483\Strong
Naming\StrongNamedAssembly\StrongNamedAssembly\bin\Debug\StrongNamedAssembly.dll"

  

To remove an assembly from the GAC:

    

 gacutil -u StrongNamedAssembly (note that this is without the .dll extension)

  

To use a GAC dll you can add a reference to the file in the GAC or a local
copy. When Visual Studio detects that there's a GAC version of the local copy,
the GAC version will be used instead.


---
### NOTE ATTRIBUTES
>Created Date: 2016-10-31 20:47:32  
>Last Evernote Update Date: 2017-03-03 08:52:29  
>author: simonjstanford@gmail.com  
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE5OTgyMDk3ODddfQ==
-->