# 1\. Symmetric Encryption


	* One key to encrypt and decrypt
	* 
Fast
	* 
An initialisation vector (IV) adds randomness to an encryption to stop the same string encrypting into the same cypher text every time.
	* 
The cryptography classes are in System.Security.Cryptography.



There are five different symmetric encryption algorithms that are implemented in .NET:
	* 
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). Implemented with AesManaged and AesCryptoServiceProvider.
	* 
Data Encryption Standard (DES). Implemented with DESCryptoServiceProvider.
	* 
Rivest Cipher (RC2). Implemented by RC2CryptoServiceProvider.
	* 
Rijndael. Implemented by RinjdaelManaged.
	* 
Triple Data Encryption Standard (TripleDES). Implemented by TripleDESCryptoServiceProvider.



All inherit from the SymmetricAlgorithm class:









You can use the base symmetric encryption class to encrypt. Done this way, you have the flexibility to easily change the algorithm that is used. Note that not passing arguments to Create() means that the default algorithm is used - RijndaelManaged:


private byte[] EncryptData(byte[] plainData, byte[] IV, byte[] key)
{
    SymmetricAlgorithm cryptoAlgorithm = SymmetricAlgorithm.Create();
    ICryptoTransform encryptor = cryptoAlgorithm.CreateEncryptor(key, IV);
    byte[] cipherData = encryptor.TransformFinalBlock(plainData, 0, plainData.Length);

    return cipherData;
}


And to decrypt:


private byte[] DecryptData(byte[] cipherData, byte[] IV, byte[] key)
{
    SymmetricAlgorithm cryptoAlgorithm = SymmetricAlgorithm.Create();
    ICryptoTransform decryptor = cryptoAlgorithm.CreateDecryptor(key, IV);
    byte[] plainData = decryptor.TransformFinalBlock(cipherData, 0, cipherData.Length);

    return plainData;
}

<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTEwMDE0NDA5NiwtMTQ4MTc4NDg0Nl19
-->