# 6\. Hashing


- HashTable and Dictionary<T> (a generic HashTable) use hashing to pigeon hole items into different lists using their hash value. This means that searching through a large dictionary/hashtable is efficient and scalable. 
- Equal items should have equal hash values. This means that you shouldn't generate a hash value based on time. 
- Hashing can be used to check that code/text has not been altered.
- There are also hashing algorithms with keys. These have an extra Key property. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_authentication_code



There are various different hashing implementations in .NET:
- SHA1 - Implementations must inherit from the SHA1 abstract class. There are two implementations - SHA1Managed and SHA1Cng
- SHA256 - Implementations must inherit from the SHA256 abstract class. There are Managed, CAPI wrapper (CryptoService) and CNG wrapper implementations.
- SHA512- Implementations must inherit from the SHA512 abstract class. There are Managed, CAPI wrapper (CryptoService) and CNG wrapper implementations.
- SHA384- Implementations must inherit from the SHA384 abstract class. There are Managed, CAPI wrapper (CryptoService) and CNG wrapper implementations.
- MD5 - Only to be used with legacy applications. Implementations must inherit from the MD5 abstract class. There are two concrete implementations - MD5CryptoServiceProvider and MD5Cng.
- RIPEMD160 - Only to be used with legacy applications. Implementations must inherit from the RIPEMD160 abstract class. There is one implementations - RIPEMD160Managed.



All algorithms inherit from `System.Security.Cryptography.HashAlgorithm`.




SHA256




UnicodeEncoding byteConverter = new UnicodeEncoding();
SHA256 sha256 = SHA256.Create();
string data ="A paragraph of text";
byte[] hashA = sha256.ComputeHash(byteConverter.GetBytes(data));
foreach (var b in hashA)
{
    Console.Write(b);
}
Console.WriteLine();
data = "A paragraph of changedtext";
byte[] hashB = sha256.ComputeHash(byteConverter.GetBytes(data));
foreach (var b in hashB)
{
    Console.Write(b);
}
Console.WriteLine();
data = "A paragraph of text";
byte[] hashC = sha256.ComputeHash(byteConverter.GetBytes(data));
foreach (var b in hashC)
{
    Console.Write(b);
}
Console.WriteLine();
Console.WriteLine(hashA.SequenceEqual(hashB)); // Displays: false
Console.WriteLine(hashA.SequenceEqual(hashC)); // Displays: true
Console.ReadKey();



Overriding GetHashCode()
GetHashCode() is called to retrieve the hash of an object. For reference types the default is to compute a hash code based on an object's reference - two object for which ReferenceEquals() returns true will have identical hash codes. For value types the hash is generated based on its value. GetHashCode() can be overridden in derived types and you should use instance fields/properties instead of static fields - all instances share static fields! When overriding GetHashCode() you must also override Equals() to guarantee that two objects considered equal has the same hash code. Otherwise, HashTable might not work correctly.

https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.object.gethashcode(v=vs.110).aspx
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE5NTI4ODQ1MTddfQ==
-->