# 3\. DataSet, DataTable and DataAdapter

DataTables are disconnected from the database. You can move the cursor back
and forth, and you can update data in the DataTable, reconnect to the database
and commit the changes. A DataSet is a container of one or more DataTables.
You execute a statement that returns multiple resultsets which are stored in
the DataSet. You can then filter, sort or update the data in memory. The
DataAdapter is the object used to populate a DataSet or DataTable and
reconnect to perform INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE commands.

  

Fill() is used to populate a DataSet. Note that the data in the DataSet is
still available after the connection has closed. DataSet has a Tables property
which is a collection of DataTables. This in turn has a Rows property which is
a collection of DataRow objects that contains the records. Records can be
referenced by row index or be enumerated.

    SqlConnection cn = new SqlConnection();
    //cn.ConnectionString = "Server=myServerAddress;Database=myDataBase;User Id=myUsername;Password=myPassword;";
    cn.ConnectionString = "Server = (local); Database = Reflection; Trusted_Connection = True;";
    cn.Open();
    
    SqlDataAdapter da = new SqlDataAdapter("SELECT * FROM Person", cn);
    
    DataSet ds = new DataSet();
    da.Fill(ds, "Person");
    
    cn.Close();
    
    foreach (DataRow row in ds.Tables[0].Rows)
    {
        Debug.WriteLine(string.Format("First Name: {0} , Last Name: {1}", row["FirstName"], row["LastName"]));
    }

You can also insert, update or delete rows after you have changed the
underlying DataTable. This is done by assigning an SqlCommand object to the
SqlDataAdapter InsertCommand, UpdateCommand or DeleteCommand property. To insert:

      SqlConnection cn = new SqlConnection();
    //cn.ConnectionString = "Server=myServerAddress;Database=myDataBase;User Id=myUsername;Password=myPassword;";
    cn.ConnectionString = "Server = (local); Database = Reflection; Trusted_Connection = True;";
    cn.Open();
    
    SqlDataAdapter da = new SqlDataAdapter("SELECT * FROM Person", cn);
    
    //Create the insert command
    SqlCommand insert = new SqlCommand();
    insert.Connection = cn;
    insert.CommandType = CommandType.Text;
    insert.CommandText = "INSERT INTO Person (FirstName, LastName) VALUES (@FirstName, @LastName)";
    
    //Create the parameters
    insert.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@FirstName", SqlDbType.VarChar, 50, "FirstName"));
    insert.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@LastName", SqlDbType.VarChar, 50, "LastName"));
    
    //Associate the insert command with the DataAdapter.
    da.InsertCommand = insert;
    
    //Get the data.
    DataSet ds = new DataSet();
    da.Fill(ds, "Person");
    
    //Add a new row.
    DataRow newRow = ds.Tables[0].NewRow();
    newRow["FirstName"] = "Jane";
    newRow["LastName"] = "Doe";
    ds.Tables[0].Rows.Add(newRow);
    
    //Updat the database.
    da.Update(ds.Tables[0]);
    
    cn.Close();

And to update and delete:

  

SqlConnection cn = new SqlConnection();

//cn.ConnectionString = "Server=myServerAddress;Database=myDataBase;User
Id=myUsername;Password=myPassword;";

cn.ConnectionString = "Server = (local); Database = Reflection;
Trusted_Connection = True;";

cn.Open();

  

SqlDataAdapter da = new SqlDataAdapter("SELECT * FROM Person", cn);

  

//Create the update command

SqlCommand update = new SqlCommand();

update.Connection = cn;

update.CommandType = CommandType.Text;

update.CommandText = "UPDATE Person SET FirstName = @FirstName, LastName =
@LastName WHERE PersonId = @PersonId";

  

//Create the parameters - the last argument is the name of the column

update.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@FirstName", SqlDbType.VarChar, 50,
"FirstName"));

update.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@LastName", SqlDbType.VarChar, 50,
"LastName"));

update.Parameters.Add(new SqlParameter("@PersonId", SqlDbType.Int, 0,
"PersonId"));

  

//Create the delete command

SqlCommand delete = new SqlCommand();

delete.Connection = cn;

delete.CommandType = CommandType.Text;

delete.CommandText = "DELETE FROM Person WHERE PersonId = @PersonId";

  

//Create the parameters

SqlParameter deleteParameter = new SqlParameter("@PersonId", SqlDbType.Int, 0,
"PersonId");

deleteParameter.SourceVersion = DataRowVersion.Original;

delete.Parameters.Add(deleteParameter);

  

//Associate the update and delete commands with the DataAdapter.

da.UpdateCommand = update;

da.DeleteCommand = delete;

  

//Get the data.

DataSet ds = new DataSet();

da.Fill(ds, "Person");

  

//Update the first row

ds.Tables[0].Rows[0]["FirstName"] = "Jack";

ds.Tables[0].Rows[0]["LastName"] = "Johnson";

  

//Delete the second row.

ds.Tables[0].Rows[1].Delete();

  

//Updat the database.

da.Update(ds.Tables[0]);

  

cn.Close();

  


---
### NOTE ATTRIBUTES
>Created Date: 2017-01-04 12:46:04  
>Last Evernote Update Date: 2017-03-02 21:46:10  
>author: simonjstanford@gmail.com  
>source: desktop.win  
>source-application: evernote.win32  

<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE3MjMxMjgxNjIsMTEwMDU2NDYxOF19
-->