# 6\. Transactions

Transactions have four properties:

  * Atomic
  * Consistent - the database moves from one valid state to another
  * Isolated
  * Durable - a committed transaction is stored permanently

  

Use the TransactionScope class (in the System.Transactions assembly) to work
with transactions. If an exception occurs inside the TransactionScope object
then Complete() is not called and the transaction is not committed. It's
important to run the TransactionScope inside a using statement so it is
disposed correctly. The benefit of the TransactionScope is that it manages the
actual transaction for you. When there are multiple databases, nested
connections or multiple resource types then the transaction is promoted to a
distributed transactions. This can have a performance impact.

    string connectionString = ConfigurationManager.ConnectionStrings["testConnectionString"].ConnectionString;
    
    try
    {
        using (TransactionScope transactionScope = new TransactionScope())
        {
            using (SqlConnection connection = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
            {
                connection.Open();
    
                SqlCommand command1 = new SqlCommand("INSERT INTO contacts.person([FirstName],[LastName]) VALUES ('Simon', 'Stanford');", connection);
                SqlCommand command2 = new SqlCommand("INSERT INTO contacts.organisation([Name]) VALUES ('NFoPP');", connection);
    
                command1.ExecuteNonQuery();
                command2.ExecuteNonQuery();
            }
            transactionScope.Complete();
        }
    }
    catch (Exception ex)
    {
        throw;
    }  


A TransactionScope constructor can be called that taskes a
TransactionScopeOption enum. It has three options:

  * Required. Use the ambient transaction or create one if needed. This is default.
  * RequiresNew. Starts a new transaction.
  * Suppress. Don't use a transaction.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbNTUzODk5MjUwLC0zOTM3NDc2MDddfQ==
-->